docs/source/roles/ordering_organization.rst, before:

..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
..

:github_url: https://github.com/IBM-Blockchain/ansible-collection/edit/master/docs/source/roles/ordering_organization.rst


ordering_organization -- Build Hyperledger Fabric components for an ordering organization
===========================================================================================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1


Synopsis
--------

This role allows you to quickly build Hyperledger Fabric components for an ordering organization. An ordering organization has a certificate authority and an ordering service.

This role works with the IBM Blockchain Platform managed service running in IBM Cloud, or the IBM Blockchain Platform software running in a Red Hat OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.

Parameters
----------

  api_endpoint (optional, str, None)
    The URL for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_authtype (optional, str, None)
    ``ibmcloud`` - Authenticate to the IBM Blockchain Platform console using IBM Cloud authentication. You must provide a valid API key using *api_key*.

    ``basic`` - Authenticate to the IBM Blockchain Platform console using basic authentication. You must provide both a valid API key using *api_key* and API secret using *api_secret*.

  api_key (optional, str, None)
    The API key for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_secret (optional, str, None)
    The API secret for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

    Only required when *api_authtype* is ``basic``.

  api_timeout (optional, integer, 60)
    The timeout, in seconds, to use when interacting with the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_token_endpoint (optional, str, https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/identity/token)
    The IBM Cloud IAM token endpoint to use when using IBM Cloud authentication.

    Only required when *api_authtype* is ``ibmcloud``, and you are using IBM internal staging servers for testing.

  state (optional, str, present)
    ``absent`` - All components for the ordering organization will be stopped and removed, if they exist.

    ``present`` - All components for the ordering organization will be created if they do not exist, or will be updated if their current configuration does not match the expected configuration.

  organization_name (optional, str, None)
    The name of the ordering organization.

  organization_msp_id (optional, str, None)
    The MSP ID of the ordering organization.

  ca_admin_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  ca_admin_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  ca_name (optional, str, *organization_name* CA)
    The name of the certificate authority.

  organization_admin_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  organization_admin_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered as the administrator of the organization.

  ordering_service_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered for the ordering service.

  ordering_service_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered for the ordering service.

  ordering_service_name (optional, str, Ordering Service)
    The name of the ordering service.

  ordering_service_nodes (optional, integer, 1)
    The number of ordering service nodes in the ordering service.

    For development and test networks, use one ordering service node. Five ordering service nodes provides Raft crash fault tolerance, and is suitable for production networks.

  wait_timeout (optional, integer, 60)
    The timeout, in seconds, to wait until the certificate authority and the ordering service is available.

Examples
--------

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

Return Values
-------------


Status
------

- This is not guaranteed to have a backwards compatible interface. *[preview]*
- This is maintained by community.

Authors
~~~~~~~

- Simon Stone (@sstone1)

Commit message:

Expose certificate authority, peer, and ordering service resources/storage through roles (resolves #211)
Signed-off-by: Simon Stone <sstone1@uk.ibm.com>

docs/source/roles/ordering_organization.rst, after:

..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
..

:github_url: https://github.com/IBM-Blockchain/ansible-collection/edit/master/docs/source/roles/ordering_organization.rst


ordering_organization -- Build Hyperledger Fabric components for an ordering organization
===========================================================================================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1


Synopsis
--------

This role allows you to quickly build Hyperledger Fabric components for an ordering organization. An ordering organization has a certificate authority and an ordering service.

This role works with the IBM Blockchain Platform managed service running in IBM Cloud, or the IBM Blockchain Platform software running in a Red Hat OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.

Parameters
----------

  api_endpoint (optional, str, None)
    The URL for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_authtype (optional, str, None)
    ``ibmcloud`` - Authenticate to the IBM Blockchain Platform console using IBM Cloud authentication. You must provide a valid API key using *api_key*.

    ``basic`` - Authenticate to the IBM Blockchain Platform console using basic authentication. You must provide both a valid API key using *api_key* and API secret using *api_secret*.

  api_key (optional, str, None)
    The API key for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_secret (optional, str, None)
    The API secret for the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

    Only required when *api_authtype* is ``basic``.

  api_timeout (optional, integer, 60)
    The timeout, in seconds, to use when interacting with the IBM Blockchain Platform console.

  api_token_endpoint (optional, str, https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/identity/token)
    The IBM Cloud IAM token endpoint to use when using IBM Cloud authentication.

    Only required when *api_authtype* is ``ibmcloud``, and you are using IBM internal staging servers for testing.

  state (optional, str, present)
    ``absent`` - All components for the ordering organization will be stopped and removed, if they exist.

    ``present`` - All components for the ordering organization will be created if they do not exist, or will be updated if their current configuration does not match the expected configuration.

  organization_name (optional, str, None)
    The name of the ordering organization.

  organization_msp_id (optional, str, None)
    The MSP ID of the ordering organization.

  ca_admin_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  ca_admin_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  ca_name (optional, str, *organization_name* CA)
    The name of the certificate authority.

  ca_resources (optional, dict, None)
    The Kubernetes resource configuration for the certificate authority.

    For more information, review the documentation for the *resources* parameter of the *certificate_authority* module: `certificate_authority <../modules/certificate_authority.html>`_

  ca_storage (optional, dict, None)
    The Kubernetes storage configuration for the certificate authority.

    For more information, review the documentation for the *storage* parameter of the *certificate_authority* module: `certificate_authority <../modules/certificate_authority.html>`_

  organization_admin_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered as the administrator of the certificate authority.

  organization_admin_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered as the administrator of the organization.

  ordering_service_enrollment_id (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment ID, or user name, of the identity registered for the ordering service.

  ordering_service_enrollment_secret (optional, str, None)
    The enrollment secret, or password, of the identity registered for the ordering service.

  ordering_service_name (optional, str, Ordering Service)
    The name of the ordering service.

  ordering_service_nodes (optional, integer, 1)
    The number of ordering service nodes in the ordering service.

    For development and test networks, use one ordering service node. Five ordering service nodes provides Raft crash fault tolerance, and is suitable for production networks.

  ordering_service_resources (optional, dict, None)
    The Kubernetes resource configuration for the ordering service.

    For more information, review the documentation for the *resources* parameter of the *ordering_service* module: `ordering_service <../modules/ordering_service.html>`_

  ordering_service_storage (optional, dict, None)
    The Kubernetes storage configuration for the ordering service.

    For more information, review the documentation for the *storage* parameter of the *ordering_service* module: `ordering_service <../modules/ordering_service.html>`_

  wait_timeout (optional, integer, 60)
    The timeout, in seconds, to wait until the certificate authority and the ordering service is available.

Examples
--------

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

Return Values
-------------


Status
------

- This is not guaranteed to have a backwards compatible interface. *[preview]*
- This is maintained by community.

Authors
~~~~~~~

- Simon Stone (@sstone1)
